README.md, before:

# Template Repo for ML Project

This template repo will give you a good starting point for your second project. Besides the files used for creating a virtual environment, you will find a simple example of how to build a simple model in a python script. This is maybe the simplest way to do it. We train a simple model in the jupyter notebook, where we select only some features and do minimal cleaning. The output is then stored in simple python scripts.

The data used for this is: [coffee quality dataset](https://github.com/jldbc/coffee-quality-database).

---
## Requirements and Environment

Requirements:
- pyenv with Python: 3.9.8

Environment: 

For installing the virtual environment you can either use the Makefile and run `make setup` or install it manually with the following commands: 

```Bash
pyenv local 3.9.8
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

In order to train the model and store test data in the data folder and the model in models run:

```bash
#activate env
source .venv/bin/activate

python example_files/train.py  
```

In order to test that predict works on a test set you created run:

```bash
python example_files/predict.py models/linear_regression_model.sav data/X_test.csv data/y_test.csv
```

## Limitations

Development libraries are part of the production environment, normally these would be separate as the production code should be as slim as possible.

Commit message:

Phils branch flights (#9)
* EDA Phil

* added flight duration

* added label encoding

* added base model

* fridays work

* restructuring code

* added changes to linear regression

* added error analysis

* updated EDA and tree model

* models with calculated mean and std of y_pred

* finalized files

* added presentation

* updated presentation + added xgboost model

Co-authored-by: Kvothe <kvothe@debian.kvothe>

README.md, after:

# ML Project: Flight Delay Prediction Challenge

**Second project at the _neuefische Data Science_ bootcamp 2022.**

## Description

This group project aims to predict the delay of aircrafts flying (mostly) from or to the Tunis-Carthage International Airport (TUN) using **regression** models. The data base for this task is from the __zindi__ website which organised the "AI Tunisia Hack 2019" and covers the years 2016 to 2018 with a total of about 100,000 samples in 10 columns (9 features + 1 label).

The data can be found at: 

[https://zindi.africa/competitions/ai-tunisia-hack-5-predictive-analytics-challenge-2](https://zindi.africa/competitions/ai-tunisia-hack-5-predictive-analytics-challenge-2).

Supplementary data for the airports are provided at:

[https://pypi.org/project/airportsdata/](https://pypi.org/project/airportsdata/) 


---
The exploratory data analysis (EDA) can be found in **1_EDA.ipynb**. The notebooks for the different models are in the *model* folder.


---
## Requirements and Environment

Requirements:
- pyenv with Python: 3.9.8

Environment: 

For installing the virtual environment you can either use the Makefile and run `make setup` or install it manually with the following commands: 

```Bash
pyenv local 3.9.8
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
